hi I'm kelcie Brennan Wessels and
welcome to this edition of Earth from
space on the european space agency web
TV today we take a look at Central Saudi
Arabia on the arid Arabian Peninsula
most of Saudi Arabia has a desert
climate and experiences extremely high
temperatures sometimes reaching up to 50
degrees Celsius in the summer the area
pictured here is on the central plateau
that slopes downwards from west to east
while there are virtually no permanent
rivers or lakes in the country large
valleys filled with water during times
of heavy rain most settlements are
located along these valleys the dark
circular area is the capital city of
Riyadh due to his dry climate the city
experiences dust storms but even though
the climate is very dry large irrigated
crop cultivations have been established
in the area west of the capital the
irrigation of the fields largely depends
on fossil water that was stored
underground when the area received more
rain several thousand years ago this
image was acquired in October by the
MERIS instrument on ESA's and VSAT
mission
and that brings us to the end of this
edition of Earth from space we will not
be broadcasting over the holidays but do
join us in January when we continue to
broadcast online every Friday at 10
o'clock Central European time from the
ESA WebTV studios happy holidays
you